Installation Notes

As usual, do 'xmkmf' followed by 'make depend' to get your own Makefile.

	You will probably want to modify the DIR define in defs.h to match
where you will be installing the xlife pattern libraries. The value
will be what xlife pops up as the default load path.

	Past that, not much needs to be done. Just type 'make' and have fun
at some of the more interesting patterns shipped along with the
program

	breeder : the full blown breeder pattern which constructs
			an infinite number of glider guns as it
			moves to the right in the universe. This
			is *big*.

	cmu : well, if you didn't know already, CMU's official logo
		is a 14 degree square. Run this to see *why* it is.
		Just kidding ... really >:-)

       shuttletrail:  defines a period-20 rake flotilla that leaves a 
                     trail of shuttles at 10 cell intervals.

        ex: contains example patterns referred to in the file pattern_editting.

	plus lots and lots of nifty patterns which have been snarfed
	from all over the place. You should see somewhere in there
	just about every interesting little creature you ever heard
	of. If you come up with any more good patterns (hopefully smaller
	than the breeder :-), please send them over to us!

	If you feel up to it, the TODO file lists some things we would
like to add into the game ... if you implement any of these, please send
us the patches.

	About file formats - lifeconv is a filter that will switch life 
file formats for you. If you have the patterns from the initial 1.0
release, you may want to run lifeconv on all of the patterns. It isn't
really neccesary since the new loader assumes the old format if none is
specified in the file (see the man page), but lifeconv will convert
the image to the smallest representation, and will allow offset loading.

"pattern_editting" is an overview and tutorial to help get started with the 
extended editting and include features.

	The old 2.0 program lifeconv has not been taught the new file 
format. It will only work on images without the #I, #B, and #E constructs. 
It is not guaranteed to leave patterns with those constructs intact but 
since it is still somewhat useful at times, it has been left in the 
distribution (won't be built by default, tho).	

	The lifesrch program based on Dean Hickerson's description (included
in the 2.0 releases of xlife) by David I. Bell has been included in 
lifesearch/.


			Jon (jcrb@cs.cmu.edu)
			Dan (dl2n@andrew.cmu.edu)
			Chuck (cs4n@andrew.cmu.edu)
 			Eric (eric@snark.uu.net)


NEW PATTERNS (that we particularly remember) :

osc_p? 	        -	oscillators of period 2,3,4,n
centinial		-	*s*entinal (i kin spill weyl :-)
longsnake		-	collapsing gliders
gourmet			-	interesting new clock pattern
randomgun		-	look carefully, then beat your head against
					the wall to clear your brain.
alu             -   even worse
counter         -   my head hurts ...
blockpusher*    -   push da weetle block down the screen ...
slowship*       -   *large* spaceships

hacksaw         -   runaway and catcher
marquee         -   unbelievable -- life is based 10 !
linepuf         -   such a dirty thing
max             -   the record grower

PATTERN ARCHIVING :

If you discover new and interesting life patterns, let us know! Please
send the xlife savefile to

	jb7m+xlife@andrew.cmu.edu

	or post into the newsgroup

	comp.theory.cell-automata

These will be incorporated into the xlife distribution. Periodically, we will
also post the latest and greatest discoveries to comp.theory.cell-automata.

Sucessfully installed on:
   HP  735    running HP-UX 9.03  X11R6 & X11R5
   DEC AXP    running OSF1 V2.0  X11R5
   DEC MIPS   running Ultrix 4.4  X11R5
   SGI Mips   running IRIX 5.2  X11R5
   SGI Mips   running IRIX64 6.2  X11R6
   IBM RS6000 running AIX 3.2  X11R5
   SUN sparc  running SunOS 5.4  openwin(X11R5)
                                                                 3. January 97
